Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is warning of what he calls a
severe response to a rocket strike that
killed 12 young people in the Israeli
occupied Golan Heights on Saturday
Netanyahu visited the site of the deadly
attack in the Drew Arab Village of majal
Shams today Israel blames the
iran-backed Lebanese militant group
Hezbollah for the strike on the sports
field which killed teenagers and
children the Israeli security cabinet
has authorized Netanyahu and his defense
minister to decide how and when to
respond some residents of the village
came out to protest against netanyahu's
visit accusing him of exploiting their
tragedy for political
purposes the rocket strike has renewed
fears of an allout war between Israel
and Hezbollah in a moment I'll be
talking to a former head of Israel's
intelligence agency the Mossad to gauge
How likely an open conflict is but first
a look at the military capabilities both
sides could drow
up Hezbollah Rockets fired from Southern
Lebanon intercepted by Israeli air
defenses a common occurrence in recent
weeks but some of those Rockets make it
through and Israel has retaliated with
devastating air
strikes Hezbollah was founded as an
anti-American and anti-israel militia in
the 1980s when it carried out deadly car
bombings on American forces in Lebanon
the group has fought several Wars with
Israel since then and has become a major
political force backed by hundreds of
millions of dollars in funding from
Iran the militia prizes secrecy and
typically doesn't reveal information on
its capabilities so any estimates of its
forces are just that but in recent years
us intelligence has put its strength at
45,000 soldiers including full-time and
reservist Fighters the group's leader
referred to having 100,000 fighters in
201 21 if that were true it would have
more soldiers than the Lebanese
Army last year the US estimated that
Hezbollah also has 150,000 rockets and
missiles more than enough to overwhelm
Israeli air defenses and cause
significant damage to infrastructure in
a
war Israel has one of the world's most
modern militaries in addition to 170,000
active duty soldiers there are about
465,000 reservists
it also has about 1,400 tanks as well as
significant artillery and multiple
rocket launching capabilities it also
has an Air Force with over 200 jet
fighters and almost 150 helicopters and
it's widely considered to have nuclear
weapons though it's unlikely to use them
right across its own
border there's also the Iron Dome an
advanced anti-missile system that has
intercepted thousands of rockets from
Hezbollah and Hamas something Hezbollah
itself Lacks
an allout War would likely cause
significant damage to Israeli and
Lebanese cities with high civilian
casualties after months of fighting
Hamas in Gaza Israel's Army is also in
danger of being
overstretched and there are worries that
intense fighting could bring in Iran and
the US in a major regional
conflict Ephraim halvi is the former
director of Israel's intelligence agency
Mossad and he joins me now from Tel Aviv
Mr Hali welcome to DW I want to start
with a question everybody is asking
today how close are Israel and Hezbollah
to an allout
War I think uh we will know uh once
Israel uh will uh
um take action as uh it has stated that
it would be a lot will depend on the
scope of the uh uh step we are taking
which is on the one hand to be a very
firm one and a clear one and on the
other hand to allow the other side not
to uh um respond uh
necessarily you have been involved in
this kind of decision- making in the
past what would be your advice to prime
minister Netanyahu in terms of
responding to this attack now that the
ball is very much in Israel's Court
I think it is impossible for Israel uh
to refrain from uh um responding to the
attack it was an attack which one cannot
ignore and ignoring an attack like this
would probably uh have a very very bad
effect on Israel's deterrent
capabilities and therefore a response is
uh absolutely abolutely uh essential but
it has to be a response which on the one
hand as I said is very clear and also
probably painful up to a point but also
it allows the other side to refrain from
retaliating in a manner which will bring
uh the entire region into a regional War
this is not in the interest of it's not
in the interest ofah today and what is
more important I believe it's not in the
interest of
Iran what would another full-fledged
military operation mean for the war in
Gaza because from from what I've been
Gathering it's also not very much in the
interest of Israel right to have another
war on their
hands no I don't think it's in our
interest to have another war in on our
hands but at the same time we can not
accept a situation in which we have a
large section of the country which is
under Fire almost daily and uh where
over over 880,000 people have left their
homes we cannot uh live with this
situation
indefinitely and I want to bring up a
detail that might not be so minor what
do you make of the fact that has bad
denies being involved in
this well well um at first they did not
uh respond uh they were very
silent it took them a long time to take
responsibility I suppose that they also
considered what was in their
interest but in anyway everybody
understood that it was uh they who took
this action I'm not sure if they clearly
uh were uh uh uh targeting this
particular uh football uh Center because
uh it's very possible that they had
another Target in mind and that they the
target which they hit was not the target
which they originally intended to uh hit
in such a an operation hasah and Hamas
of course are both backed by Iran but
throughout your time at mad how did you
experience the two groups to differ from
each other and has as Superior military
might
asde I think one has to remember that
when it comes to Gaza they are the uh
sole uh element which makes decisions on
what kind of action they should take but
in the case ofah they are a lot Al Lo
they have others that they have to take
into account they have to take into
account the government of Lebanon they
have to take into account the government
of Syria and what is more important they
have to take into account Iran now today
of all days the new president of Iran
has assumed the office of president
after he won the election there and it's
clear that he is not intending to uh
embroil the entire Middle East in war
his interests are totally opposed to
this and therefore if there is an
Iranian influence here which is quite
possible this could be the first test in
which the Iranians will step in and also
have uh something to say as to what kind
of the of retaliation or response the uh
hisbah will take after Israel carries
out the operation that intends to carry
out how do you expect Teran to to
position itself in this you say this is
a war they do not want it is a war
Hezbollah doesn't want it is a war that
Israel doesn't want couldn't this be a
an offramp to diplomacy in the region
I think that there is such a
possibility I think one has to be
patient I don't think this will be done
overnight but I think that we have now
this new uh uh Iranian government a new
president and a president who has a
different policy on International
Affairs and who has an interest in uh
opening up a dialogue of one kind or
another with the United States
and I think this is a new uh a very
important factor which we will see
possibly in play in this particular case
as well this is the first test there is
of the influence the Iran can exert on
theah in a situation like this that was
Israel's former spy Chief Ephraim Hali
thank you so much for your fascinating
insights and your time
thank you and let's hope for the
best our correspondent Tanya Kramer is
following developments from Jerusalem
and I asked her what this severe
response against Hezbollah that
Netanyahu announced today might look
like yeah that's also what's certainly
being discussed here it's somehow a very
uh tense uh waiting uh time right now
and we've seen over the past days
already uh Israel's Air Force carrying
out strikes uh sometimes deep inside
Lebanon or in Sou Lebanon and also
counter strikes from hollah again some
Aid Sirens went off in the north but uh
you know now the focus is on not so much
if there will be uh a response by Israel
but when this will happen and also uh
you know on the scope uh and and the
targets of this response because this
will very much Define according to
military experts here you know what then
will be hezbollah's response uh to all
of that so there could be a strike for
example Israel has threatened that many
times you know in Beirut but there's
some sources here saying that there's a
lot of uh pressure now on Israel uh not
to go overboard with this response we
just heard again prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu today visiting the Drews town
of mashal Shams in the occupied uh Goen
Heights he was hackled there also by
some people there but he again wowed a
very powerful response and we heard that
also from other politicians while at the
same time we also hearing from The
Diplomatic sources there is a lot of
efforts going on uh to uh call for you
know for for restraint uh um also by all
the mediators that have been uh trying
to mediate between Hezbollah Lebanon and
Israel in the past month uh already the
US uh enroy Amos hulin uh but also uh
France there was a phone call with with
the French President uh maon and prime
minister Netanyahu on Sunday and you
know everybody's trying to prevent this
to become a wider Regional War it this
is the latest escalation in a Tit for
Tat that's been going on for months now
there have been almost daily clashes
between Israel and Hezbollah since
October 7th what does that mean for the
people living and working near the
border area on both
sides well yeah if you're talking to
people that come from uh Northern Israel
they would tell you there is already a
war going on some call it a war of
attration now this has all started uh on
October 8th uh after the attacks on
October 7 and then the war in Gaza
because this is very much related to
what is happening in Gaza Hezbollah then
started attacking um uh Israel on a on a
limited scope uh at times but this there
were periods when it became more and
less and of course Israel is also
counterattacking
uh in uh Lebanon there have been uh
casualties on both sides uh of the
Border among civilians but also uh
hisbah militants and also among uh
soldiers uh in uh Israel so what has
happened here in the in in in October
last year is that over 60,000 people and
at times even more were asked to
evacuate the the areas very close to the
Border up to 5 kilometers from uh the
border and most of them are still not uh
being able to go home so U there was a
lot of pressure here on the government
to change that situation uh either
through diplomatic means also or
militarily and there was always this
fear that an incident like what we've
seen on Saturday uh in mashal Shams on
the occupied goolan Heights where a lot
of civilians in this case kids and
teenagers uh where kill could trigger
actually uh this military response and
even a wider uh uh escalation here in
the
region that was DW correspondent Tanya
Kramer thanks so much for the latest